# Data-Visualisation-portfolio-
Developed Sankey diagram, geospatial plots, pair plot, pie chart and interactive line chart with a widget for Trainline 
EU, Life Expectancy, FIFA 22 World Cup data and Co2 Emissions around the world datasets and created a data 
visualization portfolio. Imported data from Kaggle and respective official sites.  

Introduction:
This portfolio shows different analysis performed on different types of graphs ranging from Bar chart,pie chart, pair plot, Sankey diagram, line plot which is interactive through dropdown widget to geospatial graphs. I have used data to ink ratio effectively to show as much data as possible with the amount of ink used. Also, Aesthetics like color, position, text are used throughout the portfolio. I have used 3 datasets from Kaggle – which is a open source platform where many datasets are available and can be used for analysis. The first dataset is CO2 Emissions around the world, this was taken from World Data Bank. The second dataset is Train stations in Europe, this was taken from Trainline EU and was published on GitHub. The third dataset is Life Expectancy, this was taken from the World Health Organization. Finally, the FIFA 22 World cup data was taken from the official FIFA website.

conclusion:
To conclude, we have found the countries which emit the highest and lowest CO2 for the year 1990 and compared those with the year 2019. With the help of widget and line chart we were able to select CO2 emission for a selected country and a line chart for UK was also plotted between 1990 and 2019. Sankey diagram was plotted for FIFA world cup which saw Argentina as the winner. Geospatial analysis using map box was plotted to see number of train stations in ‘GB’. Choropleth was plotted to show life expectancy across the world. A pair plot was used to compare Life Expectancy, Alcohol consumption, GDP, and adult mortality. Finally pie chart was plotted to see percentage of developed vs developing countries. For future scope I would like to explore more about widget and other interactive features. As i was not able to export interactive line chart with widget. So i have uploaded the video of it.
